---
authors: [Davide Pesce]
type: [Article]
category: [Gamedev]
tag: ["Godot Engine", "Godot 3", "GDScript", "File system", "Save"]
---

# The Essential Guide to Godot Filesystem API

https://www.davidepesce.com/2019/11/04/essential-guide-to-godot-filesystem-api/

The Godot Engine stores all project resources (scripts, scenes, images, etc.) as files in the host file system.

You can access these resources using host file system paths, but this is not recommended, because using them can be tricky and difficult to port between different operating systems.

To solve this problem, Godot provides a layer of abstraction over the file system, using two special paths:

    res:// – this path points at the project root. All project assets are contained in this folder or in its subdirectories. You can write in this path only when editing or running the game in the Godot editor, otherwise it is read-only.
    user:// – this path is always writable and it’s used, for example, to store game preferences, game saves and data downloaded from the internet.

Also for portability reasons, Godot only supports “/” as a path delimiter, even in Windows.

Another thing to watch out for is that some operating system have case sensitive file systems, while others do not. It could happen that, for this reason, a path that works in a operating system may not work in another. So, it’s important to choose a naming convention and stick to that (the simplest one is to use only lowercase names for files and directories).

In Godot, all file and directory operations are performed through two classes:

    File: this class is used to read and write data into the file system.
    Directory: this class is used to manage directories and their content.

Let’s take a look at how to perform the most common file and directory operations in scripts.
